Hi, everyone, this lecture, we are going to get local data from a Jason file.
All right, so this lecture is meant to mimic this behavior of Jason's drink, receiving that Jason's
drink, passing that, Jason's drinking, printing it on the screen or just putting it inside a a suction
container and HTML element.
So this section this lecture is just just we just want to go over what is Jason data?
How do we know what is Jason data, how we can pass it, how we can use it inside our Web page.
And I know this is still local.
Right.
But the example works for any like online you URL as well.
So first off, let's go over the syntax for the Jason.
So in order to create a Jason file excuse me, the extension name is Jason O n Jason or Jason doesn't
really matter.
So whenever you you write whatever Dot Jason, you're going to get this.
So you can see that I'm just going to zoom in, hopefully unable to zoom out if I come here.
OK, I'm able to write into.
OK, what about here.
I can do it for rejuvenator settings for it, whatever, so in here, what we have is you can see that
we have curly braces for JavaScript, we have JS for e-mail.
We have greater greater than sine and less than sine.
Kind of forgot the name.
So this is a Jason file.
You can see that this is it has a different extension name a different icon.
And what we have in here is if you call back our animal trivia quiz application, we had 10 questions.
Those questions, they were inside an array of they were an array of objects.
Right.
So for the array items, we had objects.
I just copied it from there.
That's and I just removed the correct answer from here and the image.
So we just have the question and all the for answer choices.
Now, the difference is now you can see that we have our bracket there and we have our ending bracket
here.
So it looks like an array, but different says we don't have any let Konsta var we don't have any variable
and we don't have any identifier, an equal sign and in the object.
The keys and the values, all of them should be surrounded by double quotes and the final one, the
final item doesn't have a comma.
I think that's the same with a race, but the final one does enough.
If you provide a comma, it is going to throw an error.
It's a trailing comma.
Jason's line 71.
So if I come here just to remove it, it tells you what to do.
So this is a Jason file.
What we are going to do is we think we just want to replicate this as as it is coming from for us,
from the server coming to us from the server.
So and what is what it is exactly that I want to do in this lecture?
I want to be able to click on these questions and print all the questions.
And inside this Web page, I want to do that.
And you can see that this is a hands on practical example, that we get data and we use that data inside
our website.
We have some basic styling for the paragraph, for the search, for the button, for the paragraph and
for the airline.
I have provided them in line internally.
Sorry, not in line internally because I didn't want it to create, like, clutter this workspace that
we have here.
So I just provided it here.
They are very, very simple and they are just basically this and the paragraph.
You don't have any paragraph, you don't have any allies, but when you create them, they're going
to grab these styles.
So let's dive into this lecture now.
So first off, I don't need to do is I'm going to say consed I'm going to grab the questions Beaton
because whenever I click that this is going to fire that HTP request to the server.
Where is the server.
This is the server and we are going to grab the data so we need to grab this.
So it is going to be questions BTN and we are going to say document.
This is the simpler part that is also simple as well.
So but um.
And in here this is questions container.
Container container, and this is going to be questions container.
All right, so we have successfully selected them.
What we are going to do is we're going to say questions button dot out of them, listener.
We're listening for an event.
And that event is going to be kallick when we click it.
We want to get what we want to get questions right now.
Let's define this function, function, get questions.
All right.
And so now remember, we have four easy steps.
One instantiate a new teacher object.
So const I could call it new, but in this in this scenario it is new.
So I'm just going to say no and I'm going to say x h r LBG.
So you know that you can give it any name that you want.
Some people, even politics itself.
So it is going to be xml, htp, xml, htp request.
So the step one is done.
The next step is to set up the request.
How do we set up the request.
We just go ahead and use the open method and we say open the open method is going to grab three arguments.
The first one is their request method.
We want to get data.
So whenever we want to retrieve data, we just use the get method.
Where is the request you orl the request.
Your URL is six dot questions.
Make sure to spell it correctly.
Questions start Jesso and Jason and we need to provide the flag.
Whether it is synchronous or asynchronous, it is asynchronous.
That's why that is the whole idea of this chapter.
So what I'm going to do is the next step.
We are going to write the next step, which is actually which is usually the largest step, the biggest
step.
So in this step, we want to we want to know what do we want to do when we get this data, when the
status is completed, when it is like 200, what do we want to do with that data?
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say new XIKAR object onload and we're going to run a function
right now.
What happens when I get the data?
What do I want to do?
First off, we need to know if the status is 200.
But there is something else that is the red state property that we need to know as well.
So what are we to do is I'm going to say consider log.
First off, let's log the this keyword and the final step is actually sending the request.
So new char object doesn't.
So I'm just going to click on this and we get this request.
And if I come here and if I come to the ready state, it says for why does it say for and why is it
important?
Here is the MDN documentation for it.
I'm just going to copy the link and we are going to provide you with that link.
You know what?
I'm going to provide you with that link right here.
So in case you want to go back to it.
So it performs property returns.
The state of an XIKAR client is in the state, an exit your client is in.
All right.
So there are actually five states.
The first one is zero, which is on set, which is the client has been created open, not called yet.
This some developers don't call this as a like as a state.
They just say, OK, when you do open, then it counts.
So then we have only four states.
But but in reality, we have five.
So first one is on set, which is the value for the already state, the value that we see.
Right.
Where are you?
Come on, buddy.
So if I come here, you can see that the real estate value isn't for, I'm just going to zoom in so
you can see it better.
So this is for we are going to get to for one is it is open.
The open method has been called to headers received three.
It is loading, loading response.
Text holds partial data.
It means it has not completed yet and ready state for it means it's done.
The operation is complete.
So in reality, what is the real state number or value that we are looking for?
It's for right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to bring this down and I'm going to.
Remove this and I'm going to say, if this Dott status equals 200, we are going to use the logical
and operator and we are going to say this, that red state also equals four.
Then we want to do something.
All right.
So this is a typical way of doing like like doing setting up the data.
When we receive the data, what do we want to do with that data?
We don't want to do anything with the data if the status is not 200 and the red state is not four.
So if the data is not ready, the data is not completed.
We have made an error.
I don't want to do anything with the data.
I don't want to mess up my webpage.
Right.
So we need to make sure that this happens.
So now what I'm going to do is we are going to grab our questions.
Where are our questions?
Our questions are inside this Jason file that we have made a reference to them in right here.
Right.
So if I were to go ahead.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create a variable called questions.
And in here, what I want to do is now.
If we look at this at the response text that we are getting, so I'm just going to bring this up.
So what is the response to the text that we are getting?
This is very, very I hope it is not confusing.
So the response text is actually if you look closely at it, it resembles ANORO.
It starts from the top left and ends at the bottom right, the brackets.
And inside that it seems as though we have objects separated by commas.
And the keys are in double quotes and the values are in double quotes as well.
So what is the response to the response text?
Actually, so the response text, what it is actually is our adjacent file, right?
I could show you that before doing this.
I could just say console, dot, log.
I should have probably done this response text.
And when I say it, when I click on it.
So this is our response text.
But you can see that this is not valid JavaScript.
This is Jason, but not valid JavaScript.
So we need to convert it to something that can be read by JavaScript.
So we do get the response text.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab this response text and I'm going to store it inside a variable
and I'm going to call it questions and I'm going to store it in here.
But because this is Jason and Jason is not readable in JavaScript, we need to parse it.
So I'm just going to say.
Jason does pass very, very we have done this, Jason, that pass in our to do up and in our budget
up when we interacted with local storage because we are mimicking the database database databases or,
I don't know, the chloroform.
I think it's databases there except Jason data.
They don't accept plain JavaScript.
That's why the local storage we need to say, Jason, that string Jeffie, Jason, the string ify is
going to convert it to a Jason strength.
And Jason, that pass is going to grab that Jason string and convert it to an JavaScript object or string
or value or whatever that it is that we are looking for.
So now, if I were to look at this question, what what is the question is going to return.
So if I click on it, you can see that we have a normal array.
I mean, why couldn't it be normal RF right from the start?
And inside each array we have, inside the array, we have objects inside each object.
We have these things.
So we have successfully passed the data that we are getting.
Keep in mind that this data is being is being given to us.
We are requesting this data.
This is this is like a asynchronous code that we are doing here.
This is really interesting what we are doing here.
This is something that we don't have inside our e-mail.
We don't have inside our JavaScript, but we are getting it so called on the fly, right?
So we are getting it like that.
So what I'm going to do is I want to print it.
I want to I want to grab this data and put it right here.
Now, it is in a readable format, so I can put it inside and HTML tag.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to I'm going to declare a questions, results variable.
So questions results.
But I'm going to set it to an empty string at first and then we are going to grab our questions because
there are ten of them and it is an array.
So we could do the for each one.
What was that so we could do for each.
So this should be capital and inside the for each one I'm going to do is I'm going to say that for each
question.
What do I want to do for each of the questions?
I want to grab the questions resolved and I want to add on to the questions result, because if you
just provide it with an equal sign, each time we get our data, the previous data will be overwritten
by the new data.
If you provide the plus sign, the previous data will be added to the new data.
They will sitting peacefully next to each other.
Otherwise they're going to override each other.
And let's use our favorite tactics.
So in here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a dual.
And you will.
And inside the school, what do we have so inside the school, I'm going to create a paragraph first,
this is an e-mail element inside the paragraph.
What do I want to do?
The paragraph is going to be the question that we have.
So the paragraph, the how many different sounds a can of cat make, that is going to be our paragraph.
So we are going to do a template string or a template.
We are doing it.
We are just going to grab the value dynamically.
So we are going to say from the questions object, you can see that the question is actually an object.
It says Protoje object from the questions object.
I want to grasp the question, but what do we have here?
This is the function parameter.
So I'm going to grab this function parameter because we are doing it for each f for each this parameter
is going to take each time it loops over this array, it is going to grab one of these questions.
So the first time that it grabs a question, I want that this parameter to graph for me the question
itself.
So question.
All right.
So I hope you're not getting confused.
This question is the parameter.
This DOT question is the property of that object that we want to graph.
I'm sure you're not getting confused.
So next up, we have an ally in line.
So I'm going to create this line and what is going to be inside the Salai.
So we are going to have four allies and inside these four allies, we are going to have a choice, A,
B, C and D. So we are going to say question, go ahead the question and grab me the choice.
A and then we are going to copy it a few times and let's remove these lines.
OK, I think this is better.
So this time it is going to be the second time it's going to be, then it is going to be C, then it
is going to be D.
So basically we are creating an element there.
Right.
So I think the extreme element is done, the final thing that we need to do is we need to append it
to a parent.
What is the parent?
The parent is questions container.
So questions container.
And we are going to say that in our e-mail because we are pending an e-mail arment.
That's why we are not saying in our text interest e-mail is going to create that element for us.
And what do we want to do?
We want to grab the question result and append it to the questions container and let's save it.
So when I click on it, we get an error in our e-mail of NUL.
So we have questions container this.
So let's come here.
We have a section that is question.
So we have not selected that.
Properly so I might have done a mistake here, so let's click, we get the same thing, documented query
selector.
Oh, we missed a dot here.
Sorry.
So if I click on it, we do get our questions.
So let's move this.
And now this is a synchronous code.
So we get our first class.
You can see that this has like a relatively minimalistic UI that is nice to look at.
Like honestly, it is a nice shortcut.
It has if it font of times New Roman, we could change it here as well.
We could just say body, we could say font family.
Aryal And when I say it now, when I click on and notice the page doesn't reload, so click the page
doesn't reload.
We get all of our data on the fly.
We get ten questions.
You could go ahead and change that trivia application that we had an email questionnaire to make it
look like this.
So when the the questions they come dynamically, you can create more questions inside this.
And whenever you click, you are going to get more questions.
You can basically redo that using this this way asynchronously.
You can implement that inside your own website as well.
Right.
So this is what we done here.
Just to recap, you know what?
I'm just going to go small.
Just to recap.
We had adjacent file.
We instantiated the new XIKAR object.
We set up the request.
We did.
We declared what we want to do.
We said what we want to do with when we get that request, which is the most difficult part in comparison
to the other steps.
And then we actually send the request when we got their request, when we got the data or we got the
response, we said that the questions that data sorry, the data that we got, it was it should be passed
so it can be a readable in JavaScript.
And then we we stored the data inside a well and then we appended the URL to the sections that we have
here.
And every all of the data is right here.
And if I reload the page, the data comes asynchronously.
It means that we don't need to reload the page.
That's it for this example and for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.